DOCS-2190 (#11046)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/synthetics/api_test.md

    - link: '/getting_started/synthetics/private_location'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn about private locations'
    - link: '/synthetics/ci'
      tag: 'Documentation'

>       text: 'Learn how to run Synthetic tests in your CI/CD process'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      text: 'Learn how to trigger Synthetic tests from your CI/CD pipeline'
```

    - Add the URL of the endpoint you want to monitor. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use `https://www.shopist.io/`, a test web application. Defining the endpoint to test automatically populates the name of your test to `Test on www.shopist.io`. You can change your test name to something else if you want to.
    - You can select **Advanced Options** to use custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
    - You can set tags such as `env:prod` and `app:shopist` on your test. Tags allow you to keep your test suite organized and quickly find tests you're interested in on the homepage.

>     - You can create global variables and locally defined variables in your test options. If you need to use credentials or want to inject a dynamically defined timestamp in your API call, click **Create Local Variable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You can use secure global variables, for instance if you need to use credentials in your API call. You can also create local variables, in case you want to inject a dynamically defined timestamp in your request payload. Once created, both variables can be injected in your test options by typing `{{` and selecting the variable of interest.
```

Let's also:
- Add a link to https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/settings/?tab=specifyvalue#global-variables on global variables
- Add a link to https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/api_tests/http_tests?tab=requestoptions#variables on local variables

6. Click **Test URL** to trigger a sample test run.

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-config-3.png" alt="API test configuration"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Define assertions

Clicking **Test URL** automatically populates basic assertions about your endpoint's response. Assertions define what a successful test run is.

In this example, three default assertions populate after triggering the sample test run:

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/assertions-example-2.png" alt="Default assertions"  style="width:100%;">}}

Reviewer: Ah, looking so much nicer, thanks Austin!

Assertions are fully customizable. To add a custom assertion, click on elements of the response preview or click **New Assertion**. 

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration.mp4" alt="Example API test configuration"  video="true"  >}}

Reviewer: Wow didn't know we could add videos in the doc, that's so much more convenient to look at!
For that one, ideally we'd show creating an assertion by clicking on a different header than the one we already have a default assertion on (e.g., the `server` one) and manually add one on the body (e.g., body contains shop.ist). To end up in this state: https://a.cl.ly/bLukvBdl. 
I'm thinking we could also make the video shorter by starting after having clicked on the `Test URL` button since we go over default assertions with the above screenshot.

> **Note**: You can also leverage variables in your assertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: You can also leverage global and local variables in your assertions.
```
And probably add links to corresponding docs like in the above comment

In this example, three default assertions populate after triggering the sample test run:

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/assertions-example-2.png" alt="Default assertions"  style="width:100%;">}}

Assertions are fully customizable. To add a custom assertion, click on elements of the response preview or click **New Assertion**. 

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration-2.mp4" alt="Example API test configuration"  video="true"  >}}

**Note**: You can also leverage [global][5] and [local][6] variables in your assertions.

### Select locations 

Select one or more **Managed Locations** or **Private Locations** to run your test from.

Managed locations allow you to test public-facing websites and endpoints. To test internal applications or simulate user behavior in discrete geographic regions, select one of your **Private Locations** instead.

For more information on how to set up private locations, see [Getting Started with Private Locations][7].

### Specify test frequency

Select the frequency of your test runs. Additionally, on-demand and continuous integration pipelines tests are available. 

> For more information, see [Synthetic CI/CD Testing][8].

Author: ```suggestion
```

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/assertions-example-2.png" alt="Default assertions"  style="width:100%;">}}

Assertions are fully customizable. To add a custom assertion, click on elements of the response preview or click **New Assertion**. 

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration-2.mp4" alt="Example API test configuration"  video="true"  >}}

**Note**: You can also leverage [global][5] and [local][6] variables in your assertions.

### Select locations 

Select one or more **Managed Locations** or **Private Locations** to run your test from.

Managed locations allow you to test public-facing websites and endpoints. To test internal applications or simulate user behavior in discrete geographic regions, select one of your **Private Locations** instead.

For more information on how to set up private locations, see [Getting Started with Private Locations][7].

### Specify test frequency

Select the frequency at which you want your test to execute. 

In addition to running your Synthetic test on a schedule, you can trigger them directly from your CI/CD pipelines. For more information, see [Synthetic CI/CD Testing][8].

> For more information, see [Synthetic CI/CD Testing][8].

Reviewer: This appears twice, let's remove that one!

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Specify test frequency

> Select the frequency of your test runs. Additionally, on-demand and continuous integration pipelines tests are available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the frequency at which you want your test to execute. 

In addition to running your Synthetic test on a schedule, you can trigger them directly from your CI/CD pipelines. For more information, see [Synthetic CI/CD Testing][6].
```

> For more information, see [Synthetic CI/CD Testing][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Hey @MargotLepizzera, I thought we agreed we would add this link to both API test and Browser test Getting Started pages. Would you like me to delete this link from the other page as well?

When you're ready to run your test, click **Save Test**. 

## Create a multistep API test

[Multistep API tests][8] run HTTP requests in sequence, allowing you to configure [HTTP tests][2] on complex backend systems. 

### Configure the test

When you create a [Multistep API test][8], you can define a sequence of HTTP requests and create variables from the response data to re-inject their values in subsequent steps. 

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **[UX Monitoring][3]** in the left hand menu and select **[Synthetic Tests][3]**.
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button.
3. Select **[Multistep API test][9]**.
4. Name, tag and select locations for your [Multistep API test][9] like you would with a single [API test][1].
5. In **Define steps**, click **Create Your First Step**. 

    - Add a name to your step.
    - Specify the URL you want to query. 
    - Select **Advanced Options** to add custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
    - Click **Test URL**. 

>     - Optionally, add new assertions, define execution parameters, and extract variables from the response content. When you extract a variable from the response content, remember to re-inject the variable in subsequent steps.

Reviewer: Hm, this wording makes it sound like it's mandatory. How about we give an example of variable extraction and re-injection instead here? That's the most important bit for multistep API tests so it could be worth adding a screenshot or two. I'm thinking maybe we could go more quickly over what's common to single and multistep API tests and really focus on variable extraction/re-injection in this section?

Author: For sure! Do you have a screenshot or video snippet handy for variable extraction/re-injection?

Reviewer: We have ss2-exa-git on the demo account, but I'm not a big fan of this one since it's using regex for parsing. I'd be in favor of using an endpoint that responds with a JSON payload. So we could probably use https://reqres.in/ to create a flow. This might require more work so it might be worth creating a dedicated card about that one and sync about it over Slack/Zoom.

Author: Cool, added the above to DOCS-2252, which we can sync about in our next meeting.

To troubleshoot a failed test, scroll down to **Test Results** and click on a failing test result. Review failed assertions and response details such as status code, response time, and associated headers and body to diagnose the issue.

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-failure-2.png" alt="API test failure"  style="width:100%;">}}

Reviewer: Ah nice, this one is indeed way better! Let's just make sure to grab a test run that actually shows 1 as a number of trace (see https://a.cl.ly/Z4uK92Bg). You could for instance clone test 7kz-bt9-ueu from the demo account, slightly tweak the test name and use one of the failing test runs for the screenshot.

To troubleshoot a failed test, scroll down to **Test Results** and click on a failing test result. Review failed assertions and response details such as status code, response time, and associated headers and body to diagnose the issue.

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-failure-3.png" alt="API test failure"  style="width:100%;">}}

Reviewer: Ok just realized this one is bugged (body assertion), let's use https://a.cl.ly/xQu7kwm1 instead.
